After the Bootloder loads and selects a bootable device form the Boot Priority List,
It loads the first sector (12 bytes in size) from the device and copies it in the memory at 0x7C00 (You have to remember this!)

So, our bootloader Lives form 0x00 to 0x7BFF. From 0x7C00 starts your real OS, or some may call it the KERNAL.

the kernal starts the CPU (?) and starts passing instructions to it. After that, it takes full ocntol of the hardware, OS, everything.


The CPU initially starts in Real-Mode.
Its the 16bit version of the CPU where the loading happens no matter whta architecture you are running, where it is 32-bit based or 64-based.
It has no protection and direct hardware access. It is called 16 bit cause at this stage, only the 16bit registersa are active. Also it prepares for Memory Segmentation.

Not the the previusly mentioned RAX, EAX, not those.

Registers that are available are:

AX BX CX DX
SI DI BP SP
CS DS ES SS
IP FLAGS


A memory address is:
segment:offset
Example:
07C0:0000 while,

the actual physical address is, segment * 16 + offset
Example:
07C0h * 10h + 0000h
=
7C00h

Its a little confusing and more confusing after this line that 'Multiple Memory Segments can point to the same physical address.'

Another thing before writing your first bootloader is learning the habit of 'Matching Sizes'. Use matching sizes on your variables and registers. Store qword vars in r registers and dword in e registers.

Also, learn about Little-endianess.
What this means is that, 
suppose we store this 
a db 10 = 0A
b db 20 = 14
c db 30 = 1E
d db 40 = 28

so when we read a into eax, we read 4 bytes including a,

mov eax, a => mov eax a,b,c,d

BUT the order in which they are stored is more messed up.
The largest byte will be placed first then the others, 

so, in theory, it reverses.

EAX = 0x281E140A

Why does the CPU do this?
Because internally, the CPU is optimized to:
Add, subtract, and process numbers starting from the least significant byte first.
It makes arithmetic faster in hardware design.

Next we need to see is Writing Messages in ASM.

nothing fancy, just

message1 db "Hello", 10
message2 db "World", 0

where 10 and 0 are the special characters refering to \n newline and \0 which is the null or terminating character.

Now we need to learn more about NASM directives.
They are assembler instructions.

while mov, add, sub are cpu instructions, 

org 0x7C00
bits 16
times 510 db 0
dw 0xAA55
are some examples of nasm directives.

Think:
Assembler directives → used before execution
CPU instructions     → executed at runtime


1. bits [number]

- used to limit the instruction set at a set bit value. In our it will be 16 since we tell to start the cpu in "Real Mode" as previously discussed. It tells nasm to "Generate 16-bit machine code" because thats what the registers can fit at a time in Real mode.
So instructions must be encoded as 16-bit style.
Without it, NASM might assume 32/64-bit encoding → broken bootloader.


2.org [address]

This is one of the MOST important concepts. It tells NASM that to originate the program from this address. For our case, we will set the addrss to 0x7C00 which is the start of the Kernal program.
In English we can say it as, "Pretend the program starts at memory address 0x7C00"
Without it, all labelling math becomes wrong.

3. jmp $

This is not a normal jump command. the dolalr sign, $ always points to the current address its at. 
So, if its Intruction No. 3 and we tell it to jump to its current location and start executing the commands, it kumpts to itself where it sees the command to jump to itself and thus the loop continues. 

Why do we need it?
Because after boot, there is nothing else running. If you don’t loop:
CPU runs into random memory -> crash / undefined behavior

4. $$

As we saw, while $ refers to the current position, 
$$ refers to the start of the section. This is where having the code in sections shows its true help.

Now a bit confusing math is, 
$ is the current address, and $$ is the address of the start of the executable section (.text section)

By using ($-$$), we can get the length of our program.

5. times N {intruction} directive

Kind of self explanatory, 
it executes the intruction, N times. thats it.

6. The Boot Signature.

Remember how we discussed the Kernal or the bootable device's first sector needs to be 512 bytes long? Well, a question should have pooped up that how does it check if the sector is bootable or not? Lets say you have 2 operating systems and 3 storage device. Your Windows is setup in the hard drive (hdd), your linux (fedora or mint or any distro) is setup in the NVME and you have a SATA ssd connected for storage. The bootloader needs to differentiate which drives are bootable, what if it tries to boot the SATA SSD and crashes?

This is where the boot signature comes to play.
The last word (511th and 512th bytes OR 510th and 511th byte if counting including 0) are reserved for the boot signature. 
The boot signature is 
byte 510 = 0x55
byte 511 = 0xAA

so, the address becomes, 
dw 0xAA55 (little endian rememeber?)

dont compare this to your standard cpu instruction for dw. This is a Assembler directive.
How does it detect it needs to write to the last word when we havent defined the address and only told the value? you may ask,
Simple answer, It doesnt!
It just writes at the current pointer ($).
But that isnt right either....So? We need to move the pointer to the 510th byte!

remember the length of the program math?
($-$$) is what we will use to 'pad' or drag the pointer till the 510th byte.

SO the length we need to traverse is 512 bytes. But since the last two bytes are reserved, we need to traverse 510 bytes. Since the start takes up some space, we declare any reserves and stuff..the length will be <=510.
To cycle the pointer till the 510th byte, we can just fill the rest with 0 since it is the null value and wont cause any issues.

so just like we defined a word as a directive, 
we can just do 'db 0' to define a null byte.
repeat this till the 510th byte, so the lines becomes,

times 510-($-$$) db 0

break this into times <-> 510-($-$$) <-> db 0

Now we are ready to write our first bootloader.